# CI/CD

CI/CD bridges the gaps between development and operation activities and teams by enforcing automation in building, testing and deployment of applications. CI/CD services compile the incremental code changes made by developers, then link and package them into software deliverables.[2] Automated tests verify the software functionality, and automated deployment services deliver them to end users.[3] The aim is to increase early defect discovery, increase productivity, and provide faster release cycles. The process contrasts with traditional methods where a collection of software updates were integrated into one large batch before deploying the newer version. Modern-day DevOps practices involve continuous development, continuous testing, continuous integration, continuous deployment and continuous monitoring of software applications throughout its development life cycle. The CI/CD practice, or CI/CD pipeline, forms the backbone of modern day DevOps operations.

In software engineering, continuous integration (CI) is the practice of merging all developers' working copies to a shared mainline several times a day.[1] Grady Booch first proposed the term CI in his 1991 method,[2] although he did not advocate integrating several times a day. Extreme programming (XP) adopted the concept of CI and did advocate integrating more than once per day – perhaps as many as tens of times per day.[3]


A CI/CD tool such as Jenkins, CircleCI, AWS CodeBuild, Azure DevOps, Atlassian Bamboo, or Travis CI is used to automate the steps and provide reporting. A typical CD pipeline has build, test, and deploy stages.